[Autogenerated] So for our integration testing in spring,
there is some things we have to configure.
There are some ways that spring is going to help us.
So when we talk about integration testing here,
what we mean is that when I hit my article service say that service
uses the real repository class that real repository implementation
hits some real database and a database.
We're going thead probably isn't gonna be our database the
one we use in day to day work with this application because
that's going to be too volatile.
It could be in memory database, for example.
That would speed the tests up, although with in memory databases,
you didn't think about the benefits and the tradeoffs,
the benefits are your testing will be much quicker.
The trade offs are you're not testing against the same
database you'd use for production.
However, whichever type we use,
we still need to configure the database we're going to use.
So in our spring configuration,
we like a new data source we can mark this data source with a profile.
So we're saying here that this data source should only be
configured for testing when we see exactly what the code behind
the data source looks like in a moment.
The key thing here is we can use spring profiles to
differentiate between different environments.
Are we running in a testing environment,
or are we running in a production environment or death environment?
We can also configure our testing environment in other ways.
So here we're saying that we want these tests to be transactional.
We're going to use this spring JUnit classroom,
and that's going to do things like setting up our dependency injection for us.
For example,
we're also saying again that this configuration code is for the test profile.
So only use this when running inside tests.
So something else that's of interest here is this.
So when I run my integration tests,
I want to make sure that my database is an unknown
state at the start of the test.
So what we can due in spring is we can Add this at SQL
annotation we can use the sanitation to executes.
Um, SQL.
What we're saying here is execute this insert data dot SQL file and as you
can guess from the name that will contain SQL statements to insert data into
our test database that we contest against Also,
we'd like to make sure that this database is clean after the test.
So you have another SQL statement here.
This one is using a script called Cleanup SQL.
But notice the execution phase here is after test method.
After we finish the test,
we'd run the script and I will tear down our database again in this case,
what it will do whatever the script is set up to do.
As I said in our case,
we create the database and tear it down after each test again,
just to emphasize the profile we're running this under is the test profile.
This configuration only executes when we're using the test profile.
So let's bring all this together and see how we set up
integration tests inside spring.
So what we're going to concentrate on here is how we configure these tests.
And then once we have the configuration in place,
we'll see some examples of how to run them.
So what we do is we create an abstract class that's
got to manage most of our configuration.
I've created this class in my jacket entities project,
as most of the things we're going to test will involve database access,
mostly integration tests So it seems sensible to have this
abstraction in one place that other configuration for
specific projects can then derive from.
So this is my abstract test class on inside here we mark
this with a spring JUnit class runner.
We turned where together configuration from This is also
the place where we are our SQL scripts.
Also, we say this is only active during testing.
So this is active when I run my test when the test profile is set.
If I look at this application configuration class that's also
mentioned here since this application configuration class is used
to configure my application we can use, this is part of our test configuration.
The key thing here is that I add a data source that
used for testing on this data source.
I'm pointing at a different database.
I'm pointing to something like jacket D B test database.
Not my jacket db database Still set username still set a password.
Probably not a secret.
In this case, which find to have these things in code again,
notice remark this with the test profile.
So I say I'm only going to use this during my test code.
So this application configuration class is defined
inside jacket tests entities as well.
Now it's jacket articles where we're going to run the test from so I look,
first of all in jacket articles,
look at source integration test java In here we have a articles configuration.
Job it on.
That just extends application configuration.
Don't worry about the red here.
That's happening because idea it doesn't recognize the
base class correctly with code compiles.
So that means here I could add any extra configuration I needed to.
I don't have any extra.
I don't have any extra configuration in this case,
but we could put that year if necessary.
And a.
Finally, there's the article service test class.
This article service test class is the thing that derives from abstract test.
So this picks up all the configuration information.
All of the information from abstract test abstract test,
Remember tells us that you're running with spring JUnit and also
is the place where we set the profile on where we set the scripts
were going to use for inserting data for cleaning up data inside
the article test class.
This is where we'll run the actual tests.
Now, Before we do that,
let's take a look at the SQL and see what's in the SQL code.
That's going to insert SQL in the database and clean up
the database when we finished with it.
So if I go back to my abstract test class,
we noticed that the at SQL statement,
especially as a path essentially so it says slash
insert data SQL on slash cleanup.
SQL This is relative to my class path,
and so he placed these secret files inside My resource is folder,
so then included inside the jar file and then the SQL attributes can do.
Read the data from that jar falsy.
So this is in the jacket Entities project, and it's source integration.
Test Resource is so down here, there's the cleanup SQL on.
There's these insert data.
SQL.
If I look at the insert data, first of all,
then not just inserts some data into my database,
so it's inserting in the jacket db test The articles URL a title on Cem,
finally, data that makes up the image.
It's not a full image that would be too large to include.
It's a small image that we can use.
So every time you run a test,
the script runs on inserts these rows into my test database The
cleanup SQL just truncate the database and a reason I used truncate
that I want to reset my keys in the database,
reset the primary key values.
So we're just cleaning up the database completely when the test finishes.
We can rerun the test from a completely clean state the next time.
So there's one last thing you have to think about before we run these tests.
And that's what to do with the migrations.
We've already seen that we're using migrations to migrate our main database,
our production database if you like,
we'd like to use the same migration system for our test database.
But to do that, we have to run the migrations against a different database.
We're running it against jacket db Test,
not jacket db So to do that,
I had another task here called Migrate Test on inside here.
I have a do first.
This is the code that executes when the task runs.
This is where I now run flyway.
So with flyway here I can figure my test database.
So inside here, Flyway set up the URL to be jacket.
DV test schema is Jackie D V test and it runs this standard
migrations from the same locations as before notice.
I also have some extra greater dependencies here.
These are to make sure that the flyway code runs at the right time.
So the flyway code runs while I run my integration tests.
So now that I have all of this in place,
let's go on right and run an integration test.
So I want to write one single test.
First of all, just to show you how all this works,
I'm going to write a test called Should Fight Article by ID.
So notice the naming convention here.
This is a should.
So when I run this test, this is what should happen.
So inside here, I'm going to be using my service.
I'm going to be using my jacket, article services.
So I declare an instance of that.
And then once I have that,
I can use it in my code so I can call the get method that
I can assert that what I get back is not null.
So we should be getting something back from the database.
However, notice I'm not creating an instance of jacket article services anywhere,
so I need to make sure that spring created for me.
So to do that within my test, I say at Auto Wyatt,
this is where this spring JUnit runner comes in.
So at this point, it makes sure that the container is set up,
that everything gets injected for me.
The test should know Run.
So run the test from inside cradle Great will make sure that
the migrations run when I run the test here.
No errors.
So the test is green.
The test has run correctly.
Now that we have this, we can add a couple more tests.
We have a test to make sure that for the first article we get back,
we get the correct URL and correct title.
We'll also test to make sure that when I asked for all articles,
I get back to remember from my testing code.
If I go into the insert data SQL here we're inserting to rows into the database.
So when I asked for everything, I should get back to Rhodes,
I've also added a cut of other tests.
So again, if I save the code, go back to grade URL and read one.
The tests test to finish.
But if you look at the results.
We have six tests.
Last successful.
So what about testing the repository?
Well, in this case,
we probably don't need to do that as we just using generally code.
But it might be that we are extra methods to have repository implementation.
You might want to make sure that those methods are
doing what they think we're doing.
So we do that in exactly the same way.
So here we have an article repository test that extends abstract tests.
We auto.
Why the repository?
We have a test method called should find all articles.
And in this case, we simply call the repositories,
find all method and then count the number of articles returned again.
We check, and we're getting back to articles.
So again, if we go back in the cradle and run the integration tests,
they all still work.
So as we can see we can wire up the dependencies,
we need using auto wire using this spring runner to allow us to build and run integration tests